README.md, before:

# FLAME 3 - Wildfire Thresholding Utilities

This repository contains utilities and Jupyter Notebook examples, which can be used for leveraging the radiometric TIFF data and Thermal JPG imagery included in the aerial (drone-collected) multispectral wildfire imagery dataset, [FLAME 3](https://ieee-dataport.org/open-access/flame-3-radiometric-thermal-uav-imagery-wildfire-management), based on the [FLAME 3 Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02831). The tools found in this repository are implementations of different thresholding techniques, but also include some supplemental functions for handling the radiometric TIFF data.

These tools were developed by [Michael Marinaccio](https://github.com/mnmarinaccio) and used for work from the [SAM-TIFF Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.01638). The implementation for SAM-TIFF is found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.01638).

<p align="center">
  <img src="readme_images/imgoriginal.PNG" alt="Paired RGB and Thermal Image" />
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="readme_images/imgbinary.PNG" alt="Thresholded Images" />
</p>

---

## Table of Contents
- [FLAME 3 - Wildfire Thresholding Utilities](#flame-3---wildfire-thresholding-utilities)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [License](#license)

---

## Documentation
Please refer to the documentation, found [here](/Documentation.md), for any syntax or code-related questions.

## Requirements
- matplotlib==3.7.5
- numpy==1.24.4
- Pillow==10.4.0
- scipy==1.10.0
- scikit-image==0.21.0
- torch==2.4.1
- torchvision==0.19.1


## Installation
git clone https://github.com/mnmarinaccio/FLAME3_ThresholdingUtils.git <br />
cd ThresholdingUtils

You can install the dependencies with: <br />
pip install -r requirements.txt

## Usage
For the examples, open the notebook in Jupyter and run all cells <br />
jupyter notebook ThresholdingUtilsUsage.ipynb

For using the FLAME 3 Thresholding Utilities package, please import from the utils folder.

from utils.OtsuUtils import * <br />
from utils.ThresholdingUtils import * <br />
from utils.TIFF_Utilities import * <br />

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Added TIFF Calibration
TIFF Calibration notebook example code, added new sample images, updated README

README.md, after:

# FLAME 3 - Wildfire Thresholding Utilities

This repository contains utilities and Jupyter Notebook examples, which can be used for leveraging the radiometric TIFF data and Thermal JPG imagery included in the aerial (drone-collected) multispectral wildfire imagery dataset, [FLAME 3](https://ieee-dataport.org/open-access/flame-3-radiometric-thermal-uav-imagery-wildfire-management), based on the [FLAME 3 Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02831). The tools found in this repository are implementations of different thresholding techniques, but also include some supplemental functions for handling the radiometric TIFF data. There is also an example of basic calibration of the radiometric TIFF data.

These tools were developed by [Michael Marinaccio](https://github.com/mnmarinaccio) and used for work from the [SAM-TIFF Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.01638). The implementation for SAM-TIFF is found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.01638).

<p align="center">
  <img src="readme_images/imgoriginal.PNG" alt="Paired RGB and Thermal Image" />
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="readme_images/imgbinary.PNG" alt="Thresholded Images" />
</p>

---

## Table of Contents
- [FLAME 3 - Wildfire Thresholding Utilities](#flame-3---wildfire-thresholding-utilities)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [License](#license)

---

## Documentation
Please refer to the documentation, found [here](/Documentation.md), for any syntax or code-related questions.

## Requirements
- matplotlib==3.7.5
- numpy==1.24.4
- Pillow==10.4.0
- scipy==1.10.0
- scikit-image==0.21.0
- torch==2.4.1
- torchvision==0.19.1


## Installation
git clone https://github.com/mnmarinaccio/FLAME3_ThresholdingUtils.git <br />
cd ThresholdingUtils

You can install the dependencies with: <br />
pip install -r requirements.txt

## Usage
For the examples, open the notebook in Jupyter and run all cells <br />
jupyter notebook ThresholdingUtilsUsage.ipynb

For using the FLAME 3 Thresholding Utilities package, please import from the utils folder.

from utils.OtsuUtils import * <br />
from utils.ThresholdingUtils import * <br />
from utils.TIFF_Utilities import * <br />

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. See the LICENSE file for details.
